---
title: Tuskar-UI
authors: akrivoka, jtomasek, rdopieralski, rwsu, tzumainn
wiki_title: Tuskar-UI
wiki_revision_count: 35
wiki_last_updated: 2015-03-24
---

# Tuskar-UI

The Tuskar UI is a management interface for OpenStack deployments. The deployment methodology is based upon [TripleO](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/TripleO) and [Tuskar](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Tuskar); these in turn rely on OpenStack services such as Glance, Nova, and Heat.

The Tuskar UI is developed as a plugin for OpenStack Horizon; as such it is Django-based and stateless.

## Features

Key features of the Tuskar-UI include:

*   **Overcloud management**
    -   Plan and deploy your Overcloud entirely through the UI
    -   Choose deployment counts for compute, controller, and storage roles
    -   View and customize deployment parameters
    -   See real-time updates in the UI during deployment or undeployment

<!-- -->

*   **Node management:**
    -   Create an inventory of nodes through direct user input or bulk CSV upload
    -   Support for both baremetal and virtual nodes
    -   Node auto-discovery allows node attributes to be automatically filled in
    -   Tabular views allow user to easily distinguish between nodes in use and nodes that are free
    -   View summary statistics of current node usage
    -   Drill down to a specific node to view historical usage data
    -   Flavor 'suggestions' allow for quick flavor creation to match existing nodes

<!-- -->

*   **Role management:**
    -   View aggregated historical statistics for compute, controller, and storage roles
    -   Manage the flavors and images used by each role

## Quick Install

We recommend using Instack to install the Tuskar-UI:

1. Start by following the [Instack instructions](https://openstack.redhat.com/Deploying_RDO_using_Instack) through "Deploying an Undercloud".

2. Follow the [Instack overcloud steps](https://openstack.redhat.com/Deploying_an_RDO_Overcloud_with_Instack) in "Deploying the Overcloud via the Tuskar UI".

3. If using a remote virtual host, you may need to configure your ports and create an ssh tunnel, as detailed [here](https://openstack.redhat.com/Instack_FAQ#How_do_I_view_the_Undercloud_Dashboard_when_using_a_remote_virt_host.3F).

The next section will cover usage of the Tuskar UI.

## Quick Usage

Once the Tuskar-UI is installed, it can be accessed through a web browser at <http://><host>/dashboard/ ; or <http://><virt-host>:8080/dashboard if you're using a virtual host.

**1. Login**

Upon accessing the Tuskar-UI, you will be prompted for a username and password. The username is 'admin'; the password can be found in /root/stackrc on the instack virtual machine.

**2. Register nodes**

Start by registering nodes for your Overcloud. To do so, click on 'Nodes' in the left navigation.

Once there, you'll see two options for registering nodes in the top-right corner. The first is to input the relevant node information manually; click on the '+' icon to do so. The other is to upload a CSV containing your node information; click on the Upload icon to do that instead.

If you are using virtual nodes, you can generate the CSV by running [this script](https://github.com/openstack/tuskar-ui/blob/master/nodes.sh) on your instack virtual machine.

Both options lead to a node registration form where you can choose to have auto-discovery performed on the nodes to identify missing node attributes.

If you choose not to use auto-discovery, fill in any missing node attributes and submit the form. Your nodes are now registered and viewable in the 'Free' tab.

If you use auto-discovery, your nodes will appear in the 'Maintenance' tab instead with the status 'Discovering'. Wait a few minutes, and the status will change to 'Discovered'; their attributes will appear as well. Now you can choose to 'Activate' these nodes, and they will appear in the 'Free' tab.

**3. Deploy the Overcloud**

You are now ready to deploy your Overcloud. Start by clicking on 'Overview' in the left navigation. From here, you can adjust the role count of your Overcloud as node availability permits. Once you are satisfied, click on 'Deploy'. A popup will appear informing you of any autogenerated overcloud parameters; press 'Deploy'.

Your Overcloud is now deploying.

**4. Initialize overcloud**

After the Overcloud is deployed, you will still need to initialize Overcloud services. To do so simply click on the 'Initialize' button. A form will appear detailing various initialization parameters; the defaults will be sufficient. Press 'Initialize' to start the initialization process.

Once this is complete, the 'Overview' page will show you the credentials needed to access Overcloud Horizon.

## Advanced Usage

### Development installation

If you wish to create a development installation of the Tuskar-UI, install as described in the [Quick Install instructions](https://openstack.redhat.com/Tuskar-UI#Quick_Install) first.

Next, turn off the running instance of the Tuskar UI:

       sudo service httpd stop

Now you can follow the [development instance installation instructions](http://tuskar-ui.readthedocs.org/en/latest/install.html).

### Additional overcloud configuration

The parameters that Tuskar is sending to Heat can be viewed by clicking on 'Service Configuration' in the left navigation. A subset of those can be modified through the UI. To do so, click on the 'Edit Configuration' button in the upper-right corner.

Use the Tuskar CLI to modify additional parameters. This process is described in the next section.

### Using the Tuskar CLI

The Tuskar CLI can be used to perform additional operations. In order to use it, access the Instack virtual machine and source stackrc:

       source /home/stack/stackrc

Many of the CLI operations require the overcloud plan uuid:

       [stack@localhost ~]$ tuskar plan-list
       +--------------------------------------+-----------+-------------+----------------------------------------------------+
       | uuid                                 | name      | description | roles                                              |
       +--------------------------------------+-----------+-------------+----------------------------------------------------+
       | 1289d499-de0a-4688-86e2-b0caf7ae06ea | overcloud | None        | controller, swift-storage, compute, cinder-storage |
       +--------------------------------------+-----------+-------------+----------------------------------------------------+

#### View Overcloud templates

To view the Heat templates used for the Overcloud deployment, run the following:

` [stack@localhost ~]$ tuskar plan-templates -O output-dir `<plan uuid>
       Following templates has been written:
       output-dir/plan.yaml
       output-dir/environment.yaml
       output-dir/provider-swift-storage-1.yaml
       output-dir/provider-cinder-storage-1.yaml
       output-dir/provider-controller-1.yaml
       output-dir/provider-compute-1.yaml

#### Modify Overcloud parameters

Available Overcloud parameters can be viewed in the environment.yaml file. To modify a specific parameter, run the following:

` [stack@localhost ~]$ tuskar plan-patch -A `<key>`=`<value>` `<plan uuid>
