---
title: Installation errors
category: documentation
authors: dneary, rbowen
wiki_category: Documentation
wiki_title: Installation errors
wiki_revision_count: 4
wiki_last_updated: 2014-03-21
---

__NOTOC__

# Installation issues

### Execution of '/usr/bin/yum -d 0 -e 0 -y install openstack-nova-conductor' returned 1

When installing RDO packages on top of an existing Folsom OpenStack install, you will have several issues, starting with this one.

If you remove the old `*openstack*` packages and re-run packstack, you will hit a different issue:

PackStackError: Error during puppet run : notice: /Stage[main]/Cinder::Api/Exec[cinder-manage db_sync]/returns: OperationalError: (OperationalError) (1005, "Can't create table 'cinder.volume_glance_metadata' (errno: 150)")

This issue is caused by old databases still existing from a previous install, causing foreign key constraints to fail when tables are recreated.

The simplest solution, if the host is to be dedicated as an OpenStack Compute or Control node, is [ to take off and nuke the entire site from orbit](Uninstalling RDO) (in a manner of speaking). This is not advisable if you are using the host for anything except OpenStack, as it will delete all MySQL databases and remove the packages.

### Error creating database

When running packstack, I get an error

Applying 10.46.40.170_mysql.pp Applying 10.46.40.170_qpid.pp [ ERROR ] ERROR : Error during puppet run : err: /Stage[main]/Mysql::Config/Exec[set_mysql_rootpw]/returns: change from notrun to 0 failed: mysqladmin -u root password '6dddb52284a84466' returned 1 instead of one of [0] at /var/tmp/packstack/258f358951de4934825c6f48c299e96a/modules/mysql/manifests/config.pp:106 Please check log file /var/tmp/packstack/20130621-082004-3ml2C4/openstack-setup.log for more information

You are trying to install openstack when there is an existing MySQL database installed. As a result, the root password generated by packstack will not match the pre-existing password.

There are a number of possible solutions:

1.  Change the root password to the password featured in the error message above and rerun packstack - this will keep existing databases. It is not recommended to share the MySQL database used by Nova as a database server for other applications.
2.  Wipe the pre-existing databases with \`rm -rf /var/lib/mysql\` and rerun packstack
3.  Run [ the uninstall script](uninstalling RDO) to reset the host before re-running the quick start

# Running packstack with http_proxy set

If you have http_proxy set in your particular network environment, part of packstack may fail.

Solve this by adding the IP address of your server to no_proxy and/or NO_PROXY variable. You can get the IP address using ifconfig.

Add those to $HOME/.bashrc and then source$HOME/.bashrc\` or start a new shell instance.

(See [ask.openstack.org](https://ask.openstack.org/en/question/24721/packstack-allinone-behind-a-proxy-server/) for further discussion.)

<Category:Documentation>
