---
title: Neutron-Quickstart
category: documentation
authors: jrovins, kashyap, mangelajo, otherwiseguy, pmyers, rbowen, sross
wiki_category: Documentation
wiki_title: Neutron-Quickstart
wiki_revision_count: 37
wiki_last_updated: 2015-04-01
---

# Neutron-Quickstart

__NOTOC__

<div class="bg-boxes bg-boxes-single">
<div class="row">
<div class="offset3 span8">
#### This document is no longer relevant. Just use the [Quickstart](Quickstart).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## RDO Neutron Quickstart

Deploying RDO is a quick and easy process. Setting up an OpenStack Grizzly cloud takes approximately 15 minutes, and can be as short as 3 steps.

Below, we'll explain how to set up OpenStack on a single server. You'll be able to [add more nodes](Adding_a_compute_node) to your OpenStack cloud later, if you choose.

</div>
</div>
<div class="row">
<div class="offset3 span8 pull-s">
### Step 0: Prerequisites

<div class="row">
<div class="span4">
**Software:** Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 6.4, or the equivalent version of one of the RHEL-based Linux distributions such as CentOS, Scientific Linux, etc., or Fedora 18 or later. See also [ RDO repository info](Repositories) for details on required repositories. Start from a minimal installation.

</div>
<div class="span4">
**Hardware:** Machine with at least 2GB RAM, processors with hardware virtualization extensions, and at least one network adapter.

</div>
</div>
### Step 1: Software repositories

Run the following command:

    sudo yum install -y http://rdo.fedorapeople.org/openstack-grizzly/rdo-release-grizzly.rpm

or to try the Havana release:

    sudo yum install -y http://rdo.fedorapeople.org/openstack-havana/rdo-release-havana.rpm

Note: For Neutron to work properly, a network namespaces-enabled kernel is required. On RHEL systems, please do an update and reboot prior to continuing.

    yum -y update
    reboot

Due to the quantum/neutron rename, SELinux policies are currently broken for Havana, so SELinux must be permissive (and please report the SELinux AVCs as bugs, if they're not already reported) on machines running neutron services, edit /etc/selinux/config to set SELINUX=permissive.

(NOTE: In production setups, it's strongly recommended to run SELinux in *enforcing* mode.)

### Step 2: Install Packstack Installer

    sudo yum install -y openstack-packstack python-netaddr

### Step 3: Run Packstack to install OpenStack

Packstack takes the work out of manually setting up OpenStack. For a single node OpenStack deployment, run the following command.

    packstack --allinone

The installer will ask you to enter the root password for each host node you are installing on the network, to enable remote configuration of the host so it can remotely configure each node using Puppet. If the installer had to upgrade your kernel, packstack will inform you that manual reboot will be required.

Once the process is complete, you can log in to the OpenStack web interface "Horizon" by going to <http://$YOURIP/dashboard>. The username is "demo". The password can be found in the file keystonerc_demo in the /root/ directory of the control node.

You can find the demo network topology here: <http://$YOURIP/dashboard/project/network_topology/>

## Next Steps

Now that your single node OpenStack instance is up and running, you can read on about [running an instance with Neutron](running an instance with Neutron), configuring a [floating IP range](floating IP range), or about expanding your installation by [adding a compute node](adding a compute node).

Note: There is currently a known issue where the IP address on the br-ex interface is not persistent across reboots. As a workaround, after rebooting re-run packstack and pass the answer file that was generated by packstack --allinone with the --answer-file= option.

If you installed the updated kernel and rebooted prior to running packstack, everything should work. If you installed the updated kernel as part of running packstack, you will need to reboot when packstack completes to boot into the new kernel. This reboot will cause br-ex to reset, so after the reboot you will need to re-run packstack as shown below:

    packstack --answer-file=~/packstack-answers-*.txt

<Category:Documentation> <Category:Install> <Category:Networking>
